Getting-and-Cleaning-Data/CodeBook.md, before:

# Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect,
work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that
can be used for later analysis.

The assignment deliverable is a R script that does the following:

1.  Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.

2.  Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation
    for each measurement.

3.  Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data
    set

4.  Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.

5.  From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data
    set with the average of each variable for each activity and each
    subject.

This codebook has been created using with *Knitr* using *rmarkdown*
package.

## Dependencies (Packages)

The following packages are required to run the script:

``` r
library(readr)
library(knitr)
library(dplyr)
```

    ## 
    ## Attaching package: 'dplyr'

    ## The following objects are masked from 'package:stats':
    ## 
    ##     filter, lag

    ## The following objects are masked from 'package:base':
    ## 
    ##     intersect, setdiff, setequal, union

## Step 1: Merge the training and the test sets to create one data set.

The following code is used to import the various datasets included in
the dataset as separate text files. The variables are:

| variable       | description                                                                                                  |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|
| featureData    | List of all features                                                                                         |
| activityLabels | Links the class tables with their activity name                                                              |
| subjectTest    | Each row identidies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample, with a range from 1 to 30 |

``` r
  featureData <- read.table("ucidataset/features.txt", col.names = c("n","functions"))
  activityLabels <- read.table("ucidataset/activity_labels.txt", col.names = c("code","activity"))
  subjectTest <- read.table("ucidataset/test/subject_test.txt", col.names = "subject")

  xTestData <- read.table("ucidataset/test/X_test.txt", col.names = featureData$functions)
  yTestData <- read.table("ucidataset/test/Y_test.txt", col.names = "code")

  subjectTrain <- read.table("ucidataset/train/subject_train.txt", col.names = "subject")

  xTrainData <- read.table("ucidataset/train/X_train.txt", col.names = featureData$functions)
  yTrainData <- read.table("ucidataset/train/Y_train.txt", col.names = "code")

  xData <- rbind(xTrainData, xTestData)
  yData <- rbind(yTrainData, yTestData)

  subjectData <- rbind(subjectTrain, subjectTest)
  
  # create one master (merged) dataset

  masterDataset <- cbind(subjectData, xData, yData)
  
  str(masterDataset)
```

    ## 'data.frame':    10299 obs. of  563 variables:
    ##  $ subject                             : int  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mean...X                   : num  0.289 0.278 0.28 0.279 0.277 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mean...Y                   : num  -0.0203 -0.0164 -0.0195 -0.0262 -0.0166 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mean...Z                   : num  -0.133 -0.124 -0.113 -0.123 -0.115 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.std...X                    : num  -0.995 -0.998 -0.995 -0.996 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.std...Y                    : num  -0.983 -0.975 -0.967 -0.983 -0.981 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.std...Z                    : num  -0.914 -0.96 -0.979 -0.991 -0.99 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mad...X                    : num  -0.995 -0.999 -0.997 -0.997 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mad...Y                    : num  -0.983 -0.975 -0.964 -0.983 -0.98 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mad...Z                    : num  -0.924 -0.958 -0.977 -0.989 -0.99 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.max...X                    : num  -0.935 -0.943 -0.939 -0.939 -0.942 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.max...Y                    : num  -0.567 -0.558 -0.558 -0.576 -0.569 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.max...Z                    : num  -0.744 -0.818 -0.818 -0.83 -0.825 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.min...X                    : num  0.853 0.849 0.844 0.844 0.849 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.min...Y                    : num  0.686 0.686 0.682 0.682 0.683 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.min...Z                    : num  0.814 0.823 0.839 0.838 0.838 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.sma..                      : num  -0.966 -0.982 -0.983 -0.986 -0.993 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.energy...X                 : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.energy...Y                 : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.energy...Z                 : num  -0.995 -0.998 -0.999 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.iqr...X                    : num  -0.994 -0.999 -0.997 -0.997 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.iqr...Y                    : num  -0.988 -0.978 -0.965 -0.984 -0.981 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.iqr...Z                    : num  -0.943 -0.948 -0.975 -0.986 -0.991 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.entropy...X                : num  -0.408 -0.715 -0.592 -0.627 -0.787 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.entropy...Y                : num  -0.679 -0.501 -0.486 -0.851 -0.559 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.entropy...Z                : num  -0.602 -0.571 -0.571 -0.912 -0.761 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...X.1              : num  0.9293 0.6116 0.273 0.0614 0.3133 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...X.2              : num  -0.853 -0.3295 -0.0863 0.0748 -0.1312 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...X.3              : num  0.36 0.284 0.337 0.198 0.191 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...X.4              : num  -0.0585 0.2846 -0.1647 -0.2643 0.0869 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Y.1              : num  0.2569 0.1157 0.0172 0.0725 0.2576 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Y.2              : num  -0.2248 -0.091 -0.0745 -0.1553 -0.2725 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Y.3              : num  0.264 0.294 0.342 0.323 0.435 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Y.4              : num  -0.0952 -0.2812 -0.3326 -0.1708 -0.3154 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Z.1              : num  0.279 0.086 0.239 0.295 0.44 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Z.2              : num  -0.4651 -0.0222 -0.1362 -0.3061 -0.2691 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Z.3              : num  0.4919 -0.0167 0.1739 0.4821 0.1794 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Z.4              : num  -0.191 -0.221 -0.299 -0.47 -0.089 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.correlation...X.Y          : num  0.3763 -0.0134 -0.1247 -0.3057 -0.1558 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.correlation...X.Z          : num  0.4351 -0.0727 -0.1811 -0.3627 -0.1898 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.correlation...Y.Z          : num  0.661 0.579 0.609 0.507 0.599 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mean...X                : num  0.963 0.967 0.967 0.968 0.968 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mean...Y                : num  -0.141 -0.142 -0.142 -0.144 -0.149 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mean...Z                : num  0.1154 0.1094 0.1019 0.0999 0.0945 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.std...X                 : num  -0.985 -0.997 -1 -0.997 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.std...Y                 : num  -0.982 -0.989 -0.993 -0.981 -0.988 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.std...Z                 : num  -0.878 -0.932 -0.993 -0.978 -0.979 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mad...X                 : num  -0.985 -0.998 -1 -0.996 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mad...Y                 : num  -0.984 -0.99 -0.993 -0.981 -0.989 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mad...Z                 : num  -0.895 -0.933 -0.993 -0.978 -0.979 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.max...X                 : num  0.892 0.892 0.892 0.894 0.894 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.max...Y                 : num  -0.161 -0.161 -0.164 -0.164 -0.167 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.max...Z                 : num  0.1247 0.1226 0.0946 0.0934 0.0917 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.min...X                 : num  0.977 0.985 0.987 0.987 0.987 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.min...Y                 : num  -0.123 -0.115 -0.115 -0.121 -0.122 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.min...Z                 : num  0.0565 0.1028 0.1028 0.0958 0.0941 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.sma..                   : num  -0.375 -0.383 -0.402 -0.4 -0.4 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.energy...X              : num  0.899 0.908 0.909 0.911 0.912 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.energy...Y              : num  -0.971 -0.971 -0.97 -0.969 -0.967 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.energy...Z              : num  -0.976 -0.979 -0.982 -0.982 -0.984 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.iqr...X                 : num  -0.984 -0.999 -1 -0.996 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.iqr...Y                 : num  -0.989 -0.99 -0.992 -0.981 -0.991 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.iqr...Z                 : num  -0.918 -0.942 -0.993 -0.98 -0.98 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.entropy...X             : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.entropy...Y             : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.entropy...Z             : num  0.114 -0.21 -0.927 -0.596 -0.617 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...X.1           : num  -0.59042 -0.41006 0.00223 -0.06493 -0.25727 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...X.2           : num  0.5911 0.4139 0.0275 0.0754 0.2689 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...X.3           : num  -0.5918 -0.4176 -0.0567 -0.0858 -0.2807 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...X.4           : num  0.5925 0.4213 0.0855 0.0962 0.2926 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Y.1           : num  -0.745 -0.196 -0.329 -0.295 -0.167 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Y.2           : num  0.7209 0.1253 0.2705 0.2283 0.0899 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Y.3           : num  -0.7124 -0.1056 -0.2545 -0.2063 -0.0663 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Y.4           : num  0.7113 0.1091 0.2576 0.2048 0.0671 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Z.1           : num  -0.995 -0.834 -0.705 -0.385 -0.237 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Z.2           : num  0.996 0.834 0.714 0.386 0.239 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Z.3           : num  -0.996 -0.834 -0.723 -0.387 -0.241 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Z.4           : num  0.992 0.83 0.729 0.385 0.241 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.correlation...X.Y       : num  0.57 -0.831 -0.181 -0.991 -0.408 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.correlation...X.Z       : num  0.439 -0.866 0.338 -0.969 -0.185 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.correlation...Y.Z       : num  0.987 0.974 0.643 0.984 0.965 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mean...X               : num  0.078 0.074 0.0736 0.0773 0.0734 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mean...Y               : num  0.005 0.00577 0.0031 0.02006 0.01912 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mean...Z               : num  -0.06783 0.02938 -0.00905 -0.00986 0.01678 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.std...X                : num  -0.994 -0.996 -0.991 -0.993 -0.996 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.std...Y                : num  -0.988 -0.981 -0.981 -0.988 -0.988 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.std...Z                : num  -0.994 -0.992 -0.99 -0.993 -0.992 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mad...X                : num  -0.994 -0.996 -0.991 -0.994 -0.997 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mad...Y                : num  -0.986 -0.979 -0.979 -0.986 -0.987 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mad...Z                : num  -0.993 -0.991 -0.987 -0.991 -0.991 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.max...X                : num  -0.985 -0.995 -0.987 -0.987 -0.997 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.max...Y                : num  -0.992 -0.979 -0.979 -0.992 -0.992 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.max...Z                : num  -0.993 -0.992 -0.992 -0.99 -0.99 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.min...X                : num  0.99 0.993 0.988 0.988 0.994 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.min...Y                : num  0.992 0.992 0.992 0.993 0.993 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.min...Z                : num  0.991 0.989 0.989 0.993 0.986 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.sma..                  : num  -0.994 -0.991 -0.988 -0.993 -0.994 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.energy...X             : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.energy...Y             : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##   [list output truncated]

## Step 2: Extract only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement

``` r
  extractDataset <- masterDataset %>% select(subject, code, contains("mean"), contains("std"))
```

## Step 3: Use descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set

``` r
  extractDataset$code <- activityLabels[extractDataset$code, 2]
```

## Step 4: Appropriately label the data set with descriptive variable names

``` r
names(extractDataset)[1] = "Subject"
names(extractDataset)[2] = "Activity"
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("Acc", "Accelerometer", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("BodyBody", "Body", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("Gyro", "Gyroscope", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("Mag", "Magnitude", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("^t", "Time", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("^f", "Frequency", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("tBody", "TimeBody", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("-mean()", "Mean", names(extractDataset), ignore.case = TRUE)
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("-std()", "STD", names(extractDataset), ignore.case = TRUE)
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("-freq()", "Frequency", names(extractDataset), ignore.case = TRUE)
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("angle", "Angle", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("gravity", "Gravity", names(extractDataset))
```

## Step 5: From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

``` r
dataProduct <- extractDataset %>%
  group_by(Subject, Activity) %>%
  summarise_all(funs(mean))
```

    ## Warning: `funs()` was deprecated in dplyr 0.8.0.
    ## ℹ Please use a list of either functions or lambdas:
    ## 
    ## # Simple named list: list(mean = mean, median = median)
    ## 
    ## # Auto named with `tibble::lst()`: tibble::lst(mean, median)
    ## 
    ## # Using lambdas list(~ mean(., trim = .2), ~ median(., na.rm = TRUE))
    ## Call `lifecycle::last_lifecycle_warnings()` to see where this warning was
    ## generated.

``` r
write_excel_csv(dataProduct, "UCI-DataProduct.csv")
```

Commit message:

Included Codebook.Rmd source file for the markdown

Getting-and-Cleaning-Data/CodeBook.md, after:

# Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect,
work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that
can be used for later analysis.

The assignment deliverable is a R script that does the following:

1.  Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.

2.  Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation
    for each measurement.

3.  Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data
    set

4.  Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.

5.  From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data
    set with the average of each variable for each activity and each
    subject.

This codebook has been created using with *Knitr* using *rmarkdown*
package.

## Description of Variables

The following code is used to import the various datasets included in
the dataset as separate text files. The variables are:

| variable       | description                                                                                                  |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|
| featureData    | List of all features                                                                                         |
| activityLabels | Links the class tables with their activity name                                                              |
| subjectTest    | Each row identidies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample, with a range from 1 to 30 |
| xTestData      | Test set                                                                                                     |
| yTestData      | Test labels                                                                                                  |
| subjectTrain   | Each row identidies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample, with a range from 1 to 30 |
| xTrainData     | Train set                                                                                                    |
| yTrainData     | Train labels                                                                                                 |

In the source dataset features are normalized and bounded within
\[-1,1\]. Each feature vector is a row on the text file

For more details on variables within the data sets, see
features_info.txt that has been included in the dataset.

## Dependencies (Packages)

The following packages are required to run the script:

``` r
library(readr)
library(knitr)
library(dplyr)
```

    ## 
    ## Attaching package: 'dplyr'

    ## The following objects are masked from 'package:stats':
    ## 
    ##     filter, lag

    ## The following objects are masked from 'package:base':
    ## 
    ##     intersect, setdiff, setequal, union

## Step 1: Merge the training and the test sets to create one data set.

``` r
  featureData <- read.table("ucidataset/features.txt", col.names = c("n","functions"))
  activityLabels <- read.table("ucidataset/activity_labels.txt", col.names = c("code","activity"))
  subjectTest <- read.table("ucidataset/test/subject_test.txt", col.names = "subject")

  xTestData <- read.table("ucidataset/test/X_test.txt", col.names = featureData$functions)
  yTestData <- read.table("ucidataset/test/Y_test.txt", col.names = "code")

  subjectTrain <- read.table("ucidataset/train/subject_train.txt", col.names = "subject")

  xTrainData <- read.table("ucidataset/train/X_train.txt", col.names = featureData$functions)
  yTrainData <- read.table("ucidataset/train/Y_train.txt", col.names = "code")

  xData <- rbind(xTrainData, xTestData)
  yData <- rbind(yTrainData, yTestData)

  subjectData <- rbind(subjectTrain, subjectTest)
  
  # create one master (merged) dataset

  masterDataset <- cbind(subjectData, xData, yData)
  
  str(masterDataset)
```

    ## 'data.frame':    10299 obs. of  563 variables:
    ##  $ subject                             : int  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mean...X                   : num  0.289 0.278 0.28 0.279 0.277 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mean...Y                   : num  -0.0203 -0.0164 -0.0195 -0.0262 -0.0166 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mean...Z                   : num  -0.133 -0.124 -0.113 -0.123 -0.115 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.std...X                    : num  -0.995 -0.998 -0.995 -0.996 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.std...Y                    : num  -0.983 -0.975 -0.967 -0.983 -0.981 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.std...Z                    : num  -0.914 -0.96 -0.979 -0.991 -0.99 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mad...X                    : num  -0.995 -0.999 -0.997 -0.997 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mad...Y                    : num  -0.983 -0.975 -0.964 -0.983 -0.98 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.mad...Z                    : num  -0.924 -0.958 -0.977 -0.989 -0.99 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.max...X                    : num  -0.935 -0.943 -0.939 -0.939 -0.942 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.max...Y                    : num  -0.567 -0.558 -0.558 -0.576 -0.569 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.max...Z                    : num  -0.744 -0.818 -0.818 -0.83 -0.825 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.min...X                    : num  0.853 0.849 0.844 0.844 0.849 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.min...Y                    : num  0.686 0.686 0.682 0.682 0.683 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.min...Z                    : num  0.814 0.823 0.839 0.838 0.838 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.sma..                      : num  -0.966 -0.982 -0.983 -0.986 -0.993 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.energy...X                 : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.energy...Y                 : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.energy...Z                 : num  -0.995 -0.998 -0.999 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.iqr...X                    : num  -0.994 -0.999 -0.997 -0.997 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.iqr...Y                    : num  -0.988 -0.978 -0.965 -0.984 -0.981 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.iqr...Z                    : num  -0.943 -0.948 -0.975 -0.986 -0.991 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.entropy...X                : num  -0.408 -0.715 -0.592 -0.627 -0.787 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.entropy...Y                : num  -0.679 -0.501 -0.486 -0.851 -0.559 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.entropy...Z                : num  -0.602 -0.571 -0.571 -0.912 -0.761 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...X.1              : num  0.9293 0.6116 0.273 0.0614 0.3133 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...X.2              : num  -0.853 -0.3295 -0.0863 0.0748 -0.1312 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...X.3              : num  0.36 0.284 0.337 0.198 0.191 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...X.4              : num  -0.0585 0.2846 -0.1647 -0.2643 0.0869 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Y.1              : num  0.2569 0.1157 0.0172 0.0725 0.2576 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Y.2              : num  -0.2248 -0.091 -0.0745 -0.1553 -0.2725 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Y.3              : num  0.264 0.294 0.342 0.323 0.435 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Y.4              : num  -0.0952 -0.2812 -0.3326 -0.1708 -0.3154 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Z.1              : num  0.279 0.086 0.239 0.295 0.44 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Z.2              : num  -0.4651 -0.0222 -0.1362 -0.3061 -0.2691 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Z.3              : num  0.4919 -0.0167 0.1739 0.4821 0.1794 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.arCoeff...Z.4              : num  -0.191 -0.221 -0.299 -0.47 -0.089 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.correlation...X.Y          : num  0.3763 -0.0134 -0.1247 -0.3057 -0.1558 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.correlation...X.Z          : num  0.4351 -0.0727 -0.1811 -0.3627 -0.1898 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAcc.correlation...Y.Z          : num  0.661 0.579 0.609 0.507 0.599 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mean...X                : num  0.963 0.967 0.967 0.968 0.968 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mean...Y                : num  -0.141 -0.142 -0.142 -0.144 -0.149 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mean...Z                : num  0.1154 0.1094 0.1019 0.0999 0.0945 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.std...X                 : num  -0.985 -0.997 -1 -0.997 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.std...Y                 : num  -0.982 -0.989 -0.993 -0.981 -0.988 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.std...Z                 : num  -0.878 -0.932 -0.993 -0.978 -0.979 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mad...X                 : num  -0.985 -0.998 -1 -0.996 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mad...Y                 : num  -0.984 -0.99 -0.993 -0.981 -0.989 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.mad...Z                 : num  -0.895 -0.933 -0.993 -0.978 -0.979 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.max...X                 : num  0.892 0.892 0.892 0.894 0.894 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.max...Y                 : num  -0.161 -0.161 -0.164 -0.164 -0.167 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.max...Z                 : num  0.1247 0.1226 0.0946 0.0934 0.0917 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.min...X                 : num  0.977 0.985 0.987 0.987 0.987 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.min...Y                 : num  -0.123 -0.115 -0.115 -0.121 -0.122 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.min...Z                 : num  0.0565 0.1028 0.1028 0.0958 0.0941 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.sma..                   : num  -0.375 -0.383 -0.402 -0.4 -0.4 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.energy...X              : num  0.899 0.908 0.909 0.911 0.912 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.energy...Y              : num  -0.971 -0.971 -0.97 -0.969 -0.967 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.energy...Z              : num  -0.976 -0.979 -0.982 -0.982 -0.984 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.iqr...X                 : num  -0.984 -0.999 -1 -0.996 -0.998 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.iqr...Y                 : num  -0.989 -0.99 -0.992 -0.981 -0.991 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.iqr...Z                 : num  -0.918 -0.942 -0.993 -0.98 -0.98 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.entropy...X             : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.entropy...Y             : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.entropy...Z             : num  0.114 -0.21 -0.927 -0.596 -0.617 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...X.1           : num  -0.59042 -0.41006 0.00223 -0.06493 -0.25727 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...X.2           : num  0.5911 0.4139 0.0275 0.0754 0.2689 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...X.3           : num  -0.5918 -0.4176 -0.0567 -0.0858 -0.2807 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...X.4           : num  0.5925 0.4213 0.0855 0.0962 0.2926 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Y.1           : num  -0.745 -0.196 -0.329 -0.295 -0.167 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Y.2           : num  0.7209 0.1253 0.2705 0.2283 0.0899 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Y.3           : num  -0.7124 -0.1056 -0.2545 -0.2063 -0.0663 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Y.4           : num  0.7113 0.1091 0.2576 0.2048 0.0671 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Z.1           : num  -0.995 -0.834 -0.705 -0.385 -0.237 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Z.2           : num  0.996 0.834 0.714 0.386 0.239 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Z.3           : num  -0.996 -0.834 -0.723 -0.387 -0.241 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.arCoeff...Z.4           : num  0.992 0.83 0.729 0.385 0.241 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.correlation...X.Y       : num  0.57 -0.831 -0.181 -0.991 -0.408 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.correlation...X.Z       : num  0.439 -0.866 0.338 -0.969 -0.185 ...
    ##  $ tGravityAcc.correlation...Y.Z       : num  0.987 0.974 0.643 0.984 0.965 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mean...X               : num  0.078 0.074 0.0736 0.0773 0.0734 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mean...Y               : num  0.005 0.00577 0.0031 0.02006 0.01912 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mean...Z               : num  -0.06783 0.02938 -0.00905 -0.00986 0.01678 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.std...X                : num  -0.994 -0.996 -0.991 -0.993 -0.996 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.std...Y                : num  -0.988 -0.981 -0.981 -0.988 -0.988 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.std...Z                : num  -0.994 -0.992 -0.99 -0.993 -0.992 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mad...X                : num  -0.994 -0.996 -0.991 -0.994 -0.997 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mad...Y                : num  -0.986 -0.979 -0.979 -0.986 -0.987 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.mad...Z                : num  -0.993 -0.991 -0.987 -0.991 -0.991 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.max...X                : num  -0.985 -0.995 -0.987 -0.987 -0.997 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.max...Y                : num  -0.992 -0.979 -0.979 -0.992 -0.992 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.max...Z                : num  -0.993 -0.992 -0.992 -0.99 -0.99 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.min...X                : num  0.99 0.993 0.988 0.988 0.994 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.min...Y                : num  0.992 0.992 0.992 0.993 0.993 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.min...Z                : num  0.991 0.989 0.989 0.993 0.986 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.sma..                  : num  -0.994 -0.991 -0.988 -0.993 -0.994 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.energy...X             : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##  $ tBodyAccJerk.energy...Y             : num  -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 ...
    ##   [list output truncated]

## Step 2: Extract only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement

``` r
  extractDataset <- masterDataset %>% select(subject, code, contains("mean"), contains("std"))
```

## Step 3: Use descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set

``` r
  extractDataset$code <- activityLabels[extractDataset$code, 2]
```

## Step 4: Appropriately label the data set with descriptive variable names

``` r
names(extractDataset)[1] = "Subject"
names(extractDataset)[2] = "Activity"
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("Acc", "Accelerometer", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("BodyBody", "Body", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("Gyro", "Gyroscope", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("Mag", "Magnitude", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("^t", "Time", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("^f", "Frequency", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("tBody", "TimeBody", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("-mean()", "Mean", names(extractDataset), ignore.case = TRUE)
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("-std()", "STD", names(extractDataset), ignore.case = TRUE)
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("-freq()", "Frequency", names(extractDataset), ignore.case = TRUE)
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("angle", "Angle", names(extractDataset))
names(extractDataset) <- gsub("gravity", "Gravity", names(extractDataset))
```

## Step 5: From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

``` r
dataProduct <- extractDataset %>%
  group_by(Subject, Activity) %>%
  summarise_all(funs(mean))
```

    ## Warning: `funs()` was deprecated in dplyr 0.8.0.
    ## ℹ Please use a list of either functions or lambdas:
    ## 
    ## # Simple named list: list(mean = mean, median = median)
    ## 
    ## # Auto named with `tibble::lst()`: tibble::lst(mean, median)
    ## 
    ## # Using lambdas list(~ mean(., trim = .2), ~ median(., na.rm = TRUE))
    ## Call `lifecycle::last_lifecycle_warnings()` to see where this warning was
    ## generated.

``` r
write_excel_csv(dataProduct, "UCI-DataProduct.csv")
```
